= nester

Nester is a Rails gem that helps you nest your routes. Given config/routes.rb:

  resources :blogs
  resources :posts
  resources :comments

At first, this seems like a perfectly reasonable approach. Blogs, posts,
and comments are all accessed via their database `id` field. Eventually you
decide that is ugly and bad for SEO, so you write a #to_param method and base
URLs off the blog name and post title. That will look much better! You also
decide that you should now nest your resources, just in case two people from
different blogs create posts with the same title. It could happen!

  resources :blogs do
    resources :posts do
      resources :comments
    end
  end

You refresh the page and realize that your application is completely broken!

Nesting routes changes all of the generated route helpers in your views, tests,
and controllers. Depending on the complexity of your application, you may have
minutes or hours changing routes, rerunning tests, etc. And you're really out
of luck if you have no tests at all.

== Fix Your Helpers

Nester solves this problem by generating additional route helpers that act
like the non-nested routes, but generate nested routes for you. You get to keep
the nice routes with little to no modification of your application, but still
have the benefits of fully nested URLs.

To use nester, add a couple of lines to your helpers:

  module ApplicationHelper
    include Nester::Helper
    nest :post, :under => :blog
    nest :comment, :under => [:blog, :post]
  end

Now your views and controllers will have new named routes:

  post_path(post)
  edit_post_path(post)
  posts_path()
  new_post_path()
  
  comment_path(comment)
  edit_comment_path(comment)
  comments_path()
  new_comment_path()

Upon use, each route expands to something like

  blog_post_path(post, post.blog)
  blog_post_comment_path(comment.post.blog, comment.post, comment)

For plural and new paths, no argument is passed that can act as an anchor. By
convention, nester uses the last provided option to :under. This is equivalent
to the following:

  blog_posts_path(@blog)
  blog_post_comments_path(@post.blog, @post)

Future versions of nester will provide the ability to specify the instance
variable name of the anchor. For what its worth, this approach is compatible
with the belongs_to and nested_belongs_to options in InheritedResources.

== Fix Your Tests

If you are using ActionController::TestCase for your functional tests, nester
provides similar functionality to generate methods for your named
routes. nester assumes that you have generated a fresh functional test for
the CommentsController. Simply add two lines:

  class CommentsControllerTest < ActionController::TestCase
    include Nester::TestCase
    nest :comment, :under => [:blog, :post]
  end

Methods will be generated as they were in your views. Additionally, the
ActionController::TestCase methods #get, #post, #head, and #delete will be
modified to add references to :blog_id and :post_id in the
parameters hash. This makes your functional tests work fresh from the generator -
no modifications required.

== Options

Nester has two main options:

:under describes the chain of nested resources. It can be a single item or an
array of symbols.

:namespace acts like :under, but for namespaces. Useful if you decide you want
to namespace a resource under admin or similar.

== Example Application

An example application showing nester usage is available at
https://github.com/adamonduty/nester-testapp.

nester was tested with Rails 3.1. If you have problems, please open an issue on
github.

== Copyright

Copyright © 2011 Adam Lamar.

nester is licensed under the AGPLv3. You may use nester without modification
as a dependency of your application without requiring source code disclosure.
However, if you modify nester and place the dependent software on a public
facing network server (i.e. website), please publish your modifications to
nester by forking the github project.

See LICENSE.txt for further details.
